Title: I WANT TO BE EVERYTHING
Date: 2020-09-27
Tags: self, time

I want to be everything.

I want to learn about psychology – to understand why people are the way they are.

I want to learn about construction – to design and develop my own home.

I want to learn about philosophy –  to question the universe and the fundamental nature of our existence.

I want to learn and be everything, but that's impossible. _Or so I've heard._

Just kidding – that’s the reality. That said, there is this unshakeable part of me that is unwilling to give up on anything. Don't get me wrong, I give up on things. Everyone does, everyday. But it hasn't gotten easier and it probably never will.

The idea is this – when you make a choice or transaction, you give something up. The simplest transaction is exchanging a good for money (i.e. giving up money for said good). In an ideal world, you would keep both the money and good but that isn't possible in most scenarios, to say the least.

Now take the same idea and extend it to every decision you've made in your life. In the beginning, there is infinite potential. You are free to be anything you want. As choices are made, the choices that follow become more and more narrow. But more and more significant.

The college you attend.

The field you major in.

The first internship or job you take.

The place you want to settle down in.

The person you want to spend your life with.

Despite having made some of those decisions and loving the choices I've made, I've come to the realization that there is much more that I want to learn and unwilling to give up.

Because I don't want to give anything up.

I still want to be everything.
